All right, let's make
our first data type.
So every single time
that we create a data type,
we are going to be writing
something called a schema.
And a schema is not only
something that I say funny
but it's also the description
of what our data
will look like.
All the fields,
all of the relationships
all of that stuff that you have.
So what I want you to do
is to go into your schema folder
and create a new file capital U user
dot TS not JS
and then we're going
to make our users.
So say export const user is equal to
and then we'll say list
and list is a method
that comes from Keystone.
So we're gonna auto import that
boom import list
from Keystone next.
Again, that might just be
Keystone JS in the future.
But if you're using auto import,
it shouldn't matter
because it will detect the package
of where it's from.
Then in that list,
we have a couple of things,
we have access.
And we're just gonna comment
that out for now
because we have not hit access
or roles yet.
We have UI,
which is should they be able
to view the UI?
And we're gonna comment
that out again.
That's part of access and roles.
The important one that we want
is called fields.
So fields has an object to it
and these are where we put all
of the fields that we want.
So the person,
so we'll add a name field
and that is going
to be a text field.
Now, we need to import the fields
from Keystone both
so that Keystone knows
how to store the data
as well as how the,
the actual editing interface
that they're going to give to you.
So it's gonna be text like that.
Oh, I put a capital T
on that for us
and we'll try to auto import it.
Doesn't look like
you can auto import it.
So we'll go up here,
import curly bracket.
We want text,
we also want password
and we want relationship.
And those are going to be coming
from at Keystone dash next
four slash fields.
Okay, good.
Now, inside of this text
there's a couple options
we can pass in an options object.
And we're just gonna say
is required is going to be true.
We can take a look
at the other options
they have is unique.
Obviously, if it's unique
and is indexed,
that is important
if you're going to be searching
the database frequently
by somebody's name,
usually you search for somebody
based on their ID
or like a slug
or something like that.
But if you,
if this was like a common field
that you were searching for people.
If you put is index true on that,
that will make your queries nice
and fast.
And remember I talked about earlier
that Mongo DB is gonna give you
a performance adviser.
That's gonna,
it's gonna tell you,
hey, you should be indexing this field.
So don't worry too much about that.
It will tell you when
you run into that.
Next, we have is email
is going to be a text field as well.
And it is required true
and is unique is true.
Next up, we have
the user has a password.
That's going to be a password input.
And there's a couple other values
that we're gonna be
putting on here.
We're gonna give them roles,
carts and orders,
but we don't,
we won't do that now
because we don't have those things.
So we'll say,
do add roles, cart
and orders.
Okay, so now in order
to get this to show up
in our Keystone on the backend here,
let's take a look
at our actual Keystone here.
We need to import that
into our main Keystone file
and pass it to the lists here.
So what we'll do is
we can probably just type user
and it suggests to auto import it.
So I'm gonna hit Enter
and it import yeah.
Import user from schema schema.
And you'll notice that here
I'm using a named export
and not an export default.
And the reason I'm doing that
is because it makes
those auto imports
work a little bit nicer
which is great
because it just auto imported.
So now we have user being passed.
It's normally looks like this, right?
But in JavaScript,
if your property name
and the variable
you're setting it to
are the same thing
then you can simply omit that
and simply just say user.
So one weird thing about Keystone
is that anytime
you change Keystone
you have to reboot
the thing yourself.
You can set it up
to like a node Mon
or something like that
or it will restart
the process itself.
It's not like hot reloaded,
like a lot of the next jazz stuff is
so you do have to kill it.
Literally clear it out,
start it again.
And then it takes
just a quick second
in order to get this thing
started up again.
So refresh,
and you will see this
it's loading
and boom we got our users (laughs)
This is funny
because we haven't put
any auth in place yet.
So it's just,
it's kind of fun
because you could
just make a whole application
with no auth at all.
And that's really good
for just quickly prototyping.
You can go to users.
You can create a username,
email, they have a password
all this kind of cool stuff,
which is neat.
Don't create anything just yet,
because we're gonna layer on
some auth first,
before we go ahead
and do any of that.
So I'll see you
in the next video when we do that.